1. A DevOps engineer uses Linux to run, manage, and maintain the project.

2. A DevOps engineer uses Linux to manage the project in real time. Their job is to make sure the project:
runs properly, stays online, is updated, is secure, performs well, recovers if something fails
Developer writes the project
Devops runs the project on Linux.

3. Linux is the place where the project runs. If a company builds a website or app: 
Developer writes code
DevOps takes that code
Runs it on Linux server
Makes it available to users

4. Simple project flow:
Developer writes code
Code is pushed to Git
DevOps takes code
DevOps deploys code on Linux server
Linux runs the application
Users access the application

Navigation Commands

pwd	Show current directory
ls	List files and folders
ls -l	List files with details
ls -a	Show hidden files
cd folder	Move into a folder
cd ~	Go to home directory
cd ..	Move one folder back

File & Directory

mkdir folder	Create a folder
mkdir -p a/b/c	Create nested folders
touch file.txt	Create empty file
cp file1 file2	Copy file
mv file1 file2	Move or rename file
rm file.txt	Delete file
rm -r folder	Delete folder

File Content

cat file.txt	(Show full file content)
less file.txt	(View file page by page)
head file.txt	(Show first 10 lines)
tail file.txt	(Show last 10 lines)
tail -f file.txt	(Watch file updates live)
echo "text" > file.txt	(Write text to file)
echo "text" >> file.txt	(Append text to file)

Search Commands

grep "word" file.txt	    Search text in file
grep -r "word" folder/	  Search text in folder
find . -name file.txt   	Find file by name
find / -type f -name "*.log"	         Find all log files
which python	            Show command location
whereis python	          Show command + docs location

Networking Commands

ip a	Show IP address
ping google.com	Check network connection
curl google.com	Test website/API response
wget URL	Download file from URL
ss -tuln	Show open ports
netstat -tuln	Show listening ports
nslookup google.com	Check DNS
dig google.com	DNS lookup details



